spinning in place to catch their tail
bulldozing the backyard but also licking
people's faces and helping humans in
many ways dogs are as cute and helpful
as they are weird sometimes let's find
out what their habits mean why do dogs
lick their paws this is just a part of
their self grooming ritual every dog
occasionally lits its paws to get rid of
food crumbles or maybe irritating dirt
excessive licking though can be a sign
that a paw itches or hurts quite Oh dogs
clean themselves as much dogs are pack
animals and they speak to their close
ones through their sense of smell most
of the time cleaning too much would mean
they're erasing their smell and with
that the ability to tell their their 20
dogs look so different there are 340 dog
breeds in the world and little corgis
look nothing like hounds but this is not
the case with cat breeds for example
because cats never serve some particular
purposes well different dogs who are
hunters guards or Shepherds for hundreds
of years why do dogs wag their tails
wagging shows how excited your dog is
but not only in a positive way if a dog
wags to the right it wants to show it's
happy but if it waxed to the left its
distressed by something or sad why do
dogs move their noses so much a dog's
nose can tell millions of smells apart
but it can also show where the smell
comes from dogs basically smell in
stereo and just like they move their
ears they also move their noses to
pinpoint the direction why are their
noses cold and wet the only parts of a
dog's body that can sweat are noses and
paws and when they sweat they cool down
their bodies and especially the parts
where the sweat comes out but also dogs
noses are covered in special stuff that
helps their sniffers to be better at
detecting smells why do dogs stick their
tongues out
losing body heat through nose and paws
obviously isn't nearly enough for an
active dog in a hot day
breathing heavily with tongue out helps
to compensate for that it cools them
down
how did dogs carry puppy in their jaws
those puppies are absolutely safe
besides having powerful jaws and sharp
teeth dogs can lock jaws in one position
to fix a puppy tight without doing any
harm to it puppies will also go limp
after taking off the ground so they
won't hurt themselves - why do dogs get
along with people so well dogs have
lived beside people so long that they
adjusted their language to ours we know
what a sad or happy dog sounds and looks
like it will be similar to how people
express themselves but brighter so it's
more obvious to us they even learn to
copy our more complex emotions it's
known that dogs can even be jealous why
do dogs tilt their heads when called by
name well dogs have really good hearing
they can't catch precise sounds all they
care about are tones they tilt their
head to catch specific sounds we make
when we call them or when we say words
walk toy treats or my dog's favorite
word cookie why do dogs show their teeth
when calm and cheerful once again dogs
had centuries to learn to speak our
language dogs don't have much in a way
of facial expressions but they know that
smiling is a good sign so they do their
best to repeat it white dogs can't see
colors well that's a myth they actually
do but not all of them dogs don't see
any tones of red or green only blue
yellow and shades of grey red things
look to them more like brownish gray and
green ones are closer to yellow
why can't puppies here right after birth
puppies are born barely developed for
life and fully dependent on their
mother's care kind of like humans their
brain needs to grow before they're
capable to hear and see without harm so
their eyes and ears have to be closed
during the
first weeks of their lives why are dogs
so fast their shoulders have much more
flexibility and muscle around them
because they have no collarbones the
fastest breeds of dogs also have long
muscular legs long thin bodies and sharp
heads it all gives them aerodynamic
shape adding even more speed why are
dogs so good at guarding dogs can hear a
really weak sound at almost 80 feet away
their sense of smell is so sharp they
can tell owners from strangers without
seeing them Plus dogs can look and pose
menacing without actually being angry a
German Shepherd can bark as loud as a
car horn why do dogs bark well their
wolfy ancestors preferred howling and
growling dogs chose to squeal and bark
because it was easier to communicate
with people this way high-pitched sounds
make us care and short deep loud barks
alert us better than Howl's the Singhji
is the only breed of dogs that can't
bark at all wired dogs bothered with
ultrasonic sounds so much people can
only hear sounds up to 20,000 Hertz but
dogs can hear sounds up to 60,000 Hertz
closer to their average range of hearing
sounds become distressing for dogs yet
you won't even notice what worries them
why do we say it rains cats and dogs
well this old phrase probably has its
roots in mythology in some folklore dogs
are associated with storms and lightning
deities and witches that fly on high
winds can take the form of cats but
today these meanings got lost in
translation we're dogs chosen to fly to
orbit for this mission a number of small
and healthy mutts were selected and
trained dogs were considered to be more
adaptable and could trust people enough
to go through all the hard training and
testing before the fly
why our guide dogs so good at their job
only because dogs can be trained to an
extreme level their minds are really
plastic and most dogs live with
something like an idea of what their
favorite job is only around 20% of
trained dogs will end up working as
guides and those are dogs that love
doing it white dogs can't stand
chocolate chocolate will cheer you up
and make you feel fresh because it has
stimulants in it but the same stuff can
be harmful to dogs because it's too
strong for their bodies give dogs their
own kind of treats
why are hot days called dog days not
only because on days like this even
people can do nothing but lie around and
pant but also because in late July the
serious star is clearly visible in the
night skies and people have called it
the dog star since ancient times
why is petting dogs so calming people in
dogs have a similar way of bonding with
each other when you pet a dog
it feels calm and secure it gets
much-needed attention and with this you
start to feel the same way it soothes
your nerves and makes you feel better
overall why do dogs like squeaky toys
when a dog squeezes a noisy toy it feels
immediate reaction to its by a loud
squeal this tells your dog that it has a
good bite dogs also feel like hunters
successfully catching their prey doing
that why do dogs roam in circles before
lying down this is an ancient instinct
they need to flatten the ground and
grass in an area they want to lie on
this also tells other dogs that this
spot is already taken lady dogs chase
their tails dogs are hyperactive and
full of energy by nature especially pops
they have very little experience and
don't really know how to relieve their
need to hunt play and attract people's
attention trying to catch its own tail
looks like a perfect solution since it's
always available
we're hot dogs called that this name
comes from dachshund sausages used for
hot dogs some people didn't know how to
spell dachshund properly and to make an
advertisement simply replace this word
with dog why do dogs have to chew on
everything dogs especially young ones
are just like humans they are curious
about everything but while people can
touch things with hands dogs have only
their muzzles Plus dogs naturally want
to be in a pack and they feel anxiety
when left alone chewing is good stress
relief lady dogs like to bury and ribry
bones for a dog a bone is still a good
source of food for an extreme situation
and they need to always be prepared for
one if a bone is under ground no animal
will take it away and if you ribry it
frequently no underground germs will
make it in time to eat it why do dogs
howl to music dogs ancestors wolves are
famous for their habit of howling
together it's their way to communicate
with each other
this behavior is still wedged in dog's
heads and they probably don't even know
why they howled a certain high-pitched
tones they hear but they just must do it
hey maybe they just like to sing
[Music]